README.md, before:

# Practice-Apps
Here I store my iOS projects I made in terms of practice that are too small to be in a separate repository. I believe that it is a great practice to store such things since you always can use previous experience as a reference plus you have a solid representation of how much you have done. 

### Addition

Here are small practice progects made in terms of learning Computer Science

[**Swift**](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Swift)    
[**HackerRank_Solutions**](Resources/Notes/HackerRank_solutions.md)  
[**Data structures**](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Data_structures)  
[**Algorithms**](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Algorithms)  

# Apps  

## [iOS app development bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/ios-13-app-development-bootcamp/?utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=udemyads&utm_campaign=iOSDevelopment_v.PROF_la.EN_cc.ROW_ti.6292&utm_content=deal4584&utm_term=_._ag_85479008314_._ad_437497336317_._kw__._de_c_._dm__._pl__._ti_dsa-774930045049_._li_9047027_._pd__._&matchtype=b&gclid=Cj0KCQiApsiBBhCKARIsAN8o_4gEPNNOg-_E9Tg0_tILyIOzcmQW0d26UKOQsdht9iqjSPDf1yCzVkkaAoLhEALw_wcB) 

### Todoey (CoreData / Realm)
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Todoey_Realm.png)

A To-do app with gradient tableview feature based on different data persistance methods.

`Practiced:`  
- Local data persistance  
- App sandboxing concept  
- UserDefaults  
- Encoding / Decoding data with NSCoder  
- CoreData (CRUD)  
- Realm (CRUD)  
- Predicates  
- UINavigation bar customization 
- Work with the [Chameleon framework](https://github.com/wowansm/Chameleon/tree/swift5)  
- Work with [SwipeCellKit](https://github.com/SwipeCellKit/SwipeCellKit)  

[`Source files (Coredata)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Todoey)  
[`Source files finished app (Realm)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Todoey_Realm)

---

### HackerNews SwiftUI
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/HackerNews.png)

An app with feed from Search Hacker News site. It contains all featured posts, sites and just topics from the hacker world  

`Practiced:`  
- SwiftUI  
- List  
- Moving among views  
- Observer design pattern  
- @Observable / @Observed logic  
- Networking with SwiftUI  
- Mac port feature  
- Work with [**Search Hacker News API**](https://hn.algolia.com/api)  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/H4X0R%20News) 

---

### SwiftUI Micro Apps
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/MicroSwiftUI.png)

3 super simple apps made with SwiftUI in order to learn its basics

 `Practiced:`  
- SwiftUI basics  
- ZHVStacks
- Layout
- @State logic  

[`Source files (Business card)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/MyBusinessCard)  
[`Source files (I Am Rich)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/I%20Am%20Rich)  
[`Source files (Dice)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Dice-SwiftUI)  

---

### Flash Chat
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/FlashChat.png) 

A messenger app implemented with Firestore API. A user can register, login and send messages to the general chat room.

`Practiced:`  
- Networking   
- Delegate pattern  
- MVC pattern  
- Work with [**Firestore API**](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/use-rest-api)  
- DispatchQueue  
- Clean code structure with extensions  
- Work with XIB

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Flash%20Chat)  

---

### ByteCoin
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/ByteCoin.png) 

This app allows you to see current Bytecoin cost in different currencies  

`Practiced:`  
- Networking  
- @IBDesignable and @IBInspectable  
- Delegate pattern  
- MVC pattern  
- JSON parsing  
- Work with [**CoinApi API**](https://www.coinapi.io)   
- DispatchQueue  
- Protocols  
- Clean code structure with extensions  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/ByteCoin)

---

### Clima
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Clima.gif) 

Weather app. As They say, every iOS developer shoild make the weather app at least once. So did I

`Practiced:`  
- Networking  
- Core Location
- Delegate pattern  
- MVC pattern  
- JSON parsing  
- Work with [**OpenWeather API**](https://openweathermap.org/api)    
- DispatchQueue  
- Working with dark and light mode and making UI change relatively to the modes  
- Protocols  
- Clean code structure with extensions  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Clima) 

---

### Tipsy
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Tipsy.png) 

Tip calculator. Type total bill, choose a tip percent option, amount of people to split the bill among and calculate the number

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- UITextField  
- UIStepper  
- Optionals  
- Navigation  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Tipsy) 

---

### BMI Calculator
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/BMI_Calculator.png)  

An app that calculates BMI based on values inputed via sliders

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- UI element  
- Optionals
- Navigation

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/BMI%20Calculator) 

---

### Quizzler
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Quizzler.png)  

Simple quiz app made to deeply understand how does the MVC design pattern work

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- Progress bar UI element  
- UI elements customization  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Quizzler)  
[`Source files (Multiple choice)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/tree/main/Apps/Quizzler%C2%A0(MultipleChoice))  
[`Source files (Challenge app - Destiny)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Destiny)   

---

## [Udacity - UIKit Fundamentals]((https://www.udacity.com/course/uikit-fundamentals--ud788))
### MemeMe
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/MemeMe.png)  

Simple meme creator app. Choose an image, type something in the textViews and share or save the meme. There is 2 ways of saved memes representation - table and collection

`Practiced:`  
- UITableView  
- UICollectionView  
- Navigation  
- Activity view  
- Data flow via appDelegate  
- Tab bar menu  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/MemeMeV2)  
[`Source files (just meme maker view)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/MemeMeV1)  

---

### Roshambo
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Roshambo/Roshambo.png)  

![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Roshambo/roshamboPreview.gif)  

Rock-Paper-Scissors. You choose a shape and look at the result in the other ViewController.  

`Practiced:`  
- Swift  
- Different ViewController presentations  
- Navigation View Controller  
- Delegate design pattern  
- UITableView  
- Custom cells    
Implemented ViewController presentation:   
- with only code  
- Code & Segue  
- Only Segue  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Roshambo)  
[`Source files (Navigation ViewController solution)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/RoshamboV2)

---

## [Uacity - Intro to iOS App Development](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-ios-app-development-with-swift--ud585)
### Pitch perfect
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/PitchPerfect.png)

An app with 2 view controllers that records your voice and plays the record with different pithes.  

`Practiced:`  
- Swift  
- UIStackView  
- AutoLayout   

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/PitchPerfect)

---

### Text Fields
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/TextFields.png)

3 UITextFields with different preferences.  

`Practiced:`  
- Swift  
- UITextField  
- UISwitch  
- Delegate design pattern    
Implemented TextField in different ways:  
- TextField that can hold only 5 digits  
- TextField that formats data   
- TextField that changes its text color via typing and it also has to be enabled by the switch   

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/TextFields)

---

### Color Maker
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Color_Maker.png)

A color mix app. Drag sliders and see how the colors mixing.  

`Practiced:`
- Swift
- AutoLayout
- UI elements  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Color%20Maker)

Commit message:

Add finished Calculator app
Add note about this app in README

README.md, after:

# Practice-Apps
Here I store my iOS projects I made in terms of practice that are too small to be in a separate repository. I believe that it is a great practice to store such things since you always can use previous experience as a reference plus you have a solid representation of how much you have done. 

### Addition

Here are small practice progects made in terms of learning Computer Science

[**Swift**](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Swift)    
[**HackerRank_Solutions**](Resources/Notes/HackerRank_solutions.md)  
[**Data structures**](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Data_structures)  
[**Algorithms**](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Algorithms)  

# Apps  

## [iOS app development bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/ios-13-app-development-bootcamp/?utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=udemyads&utm_campaign=iOSDevelopment_v.PROF_la.EN_cc.ROW_ti.6292&utm_content=deal4584&utm_term=_._ag_85479008314_._ad_437497336317_._kw__._de_c_._dm__._pl__._ti_dsa-774930045049_._li_9047027_._pd__._&matchtype=b&gclid=Cj0KCQiApsiBBhCKARIsAN8o_4gEPNNOg-_E9Tg0_tILyIOzcmQW0d26UKOQsdht9iqjSPDf1yCzVkkaAoLhEALw_wcB) 

### Todoey (CoreData / Realm)
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Todoey_Realm.png)

A To-do app with gradient tableview feature based on different data persistance methods.

`Practiced:`  
- Local data persistance  
- App sandboxing concept  
- UserDefaults  
- Encoding / Decoding data with NSCoder  
- CoreData (CRUD)  
- Realm (CRUD)  
- Predicates  
- UINavigation bar customization 
- Work with the [Chameleon framework](https://github.com/wowansm/Chameleon/tree/swift5)  
- Work with [SwipeCellKit](https://github.com/SwipeCellKit/SwipeCellKit)  

[`Source files (Coredata)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Todoey)  
[`Source files finished app (Realm)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Todoey_Realm)

---

### HackerNews SwiftUI
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/HackerNews.png)

An app with feed from Search Hacker News site. It contains all featured posts, sites and just topics from the hacker world  

`Practiced:`  
- SwiftUI  
- List  
- Moving among views  
- Observer design pattern  
- @Observable / @Observed logic  
- Networking with SwiftUI  
- Mac port feature  
- Work with [**Search Hacker News API**](https://hn.algolia.com/api)  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/H4X0R%20News) 

---

### SwiftUI Micro Apps
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/MicroSwiftUI.png)

3 super simple apps made with SwiftUI in order to learn its basics

 `Practiced:`  
- SwiftUI basics  
- ZHVStacks
- Layout
- @State logic  

[`Source files (Business card)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/MyBusinessCard)  
[`Source files (I Am Rich)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/I%20Am%20Rich)  
[`Source files (Dice)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Dice-SwiftUI)  

---

### Flash Chat
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/FlashChat.png) 

A messenger app implemented with Firestore API. A user can register, login and send messages to the general chat room.

`Practiced:`  
- Networking   
- Delegate pattern  
- MVC pattern  
- Work with [**Firestore API**](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/use-rest-api)  
- DispatchQueue  
- Clean code structure with extensions  
- Work with XIB

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Flash%20Chat)  

---

### ByteCoin
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/ByteCoin.png) 

This app allows you to see current Bytecoin cost in different currencies  

`Practiced:`  
- Networking  
- @IBDesignable and @IBInspectable  
- Delegate pattern  
- MVC pattern  
- JSON parsing  
- Work with [**CoinApi API**](https://www.coinapi.io)   
- DispatchQueue  
- Protocols  
- Clean code structure with extensions  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/ByteCoin)

---

### Clima
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Clima.gif) 

Weather app. As They say, every iOS developer shoild make the weather app at least once. So did I

`Practiced:`  
- Networking  
- Core Location
- Delegate pattern  
- MVC pattern  
- JSON parsing  
- Work with [**OpenWeather API**](https://openweathermap.org/api)    
- DispatchQueue  
- Working with dark and light mode and making UI change relatively to the modes  
- Protocols  
- Clean code structure with extensions  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Clima) 

---

### Calculator
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Calculator.png)  

Basic calculator made for Swift and UI layout practice  

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- Autolayout  
- Structs and Classes  
- Tuples  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Calculator) 

---

### Tipsy
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Tipsy.png) 

Tip calculator. Type total bill, choose a tip percent option, amount of people to split the bill among and calculate the number

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- UITextField  
- UIStepper  
- Optionals  
- Navigation  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Tipsy) 

---

### BMI Calculator
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/BMI_Calculator.png)  

An app that calculates BMI based on values inputed via sliders

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- UI element  
- Optionals
- Navigation

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/BMI%20Calculator) 

---

### Quizzler
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Quizzler.png)  

Simple quiz app made to deeply understand how does the MVC design pattern work

`Practiced:`  
- MVC design pattern  
- Progress bar UI element  
- UI elements customization  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Quizzler)  
[`Source files (Multiple choice)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/tree/main/Apps/Quizzler%C2%A0(MultipleChoice))  
[`Source files (Challenge app - Destiny)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Destiny)   

---

## [Udacity - UIKit Fundamentals]((https://www.udacity.com/course/uikit-fundamentals--ud788))
### MemeMe
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/MemeMe.png)  

Simple meme creator app. Choose an image, type something in the textViews and share or save the meme. There is 2 ways of saved memes representation - table and collection

`Practiced:`  
- UITableView  
- UICollectionView  
- Navigation  
- Activity view  
- Data flow via appDelegate  
- Tab bar menu  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/MemeMeV2)  
[`Source files (just meme maker view)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/MemeMeV1)  

---

### Roshambo
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Roshambo/Roshambo.png)  

![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Roshambo/roshamboPreview.gif)  

Rock-Paper-Scissors. You choose a shape and look at the result in the other ViewController.  

`Practiced:`  
- Swift  
- Different ViewController presentations  
- Navigation View Controller  
- Delegate design pattern  
- UITableView  
- Custom cells    
Implemented ViewController presentation:   
- with only code  
- Code & Segue  
- Only Segue  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Roshambo)  
[`Source files (Navigation ViewController solution)`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/RoshamboV2)

---

## [Uacity - Intro to iOS App Development](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-ios-app-development-with-swift--ud585)
### Pitch perfect
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/PitchPerfect.png)

An app with 2 view controllers that records your voice and plays the record with different pithes.  

`Practiced:`  
- Swift  
- UIStackView  
- AutoLayout   

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/PitchPerfect)

---

### Text Fields
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/TextFields.png)

3 UITextFields with different preferences.  

`Practiced:`  
- Swift  
- UITextField  
- UISwitch  
- Delegate design pattern    
Implemented TextField in different ways:  
- TextField that can hold only 5 digits  
- TextField that formats data   
- TextField that changes its text color via typing and it also has to be enabled by the switch   

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/TextFields)

---

### Color Maker
![Image](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Resources/Images/My_projects/Color_Maker.png)

A color mix app. Drag sliders and see how the colors mixing.  

`Practiced:`
- Swift
- AutoLayout
- UI elements  

[`Source files`](https://github.com/Lemonbrush/Practice-Apps/blob/main/Apps/Color%20Maker)
